{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2 Arial;}{\f3\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red18\green54\blue84;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.18362}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\cbpat2\widctlpar\sa240\qc\cf1\ul\b\f0\fs48 World Happiness Report Project\ulnone\fs36\par
\cf0\b0\f1\fs28\lang9\par

\pard\cbpat2\widctlpar\sa240\cf1\b\f0\lang1033 Project Description\par

\pard\cbpat2\widctlpar\sb100\sa240\b0 The World Happiness Report is a landmark survey of the state of global happiness. The first report was published in 2012, the second in 2013, the third in 2015, and the fourth in the 2016 Update. The World Happiness 2017, which ranks 155 countries by their happiness levels, was released at the United Nations at an event celebrating International Day of Happiness on March 20th. The report continues to gain global recognition as governments, organizations and civil society increasingly use happiness indicators to inform their policy-making decisions. Leading experts across fields \endash  economics, psychology, survey analysis, national statistics, health, public policy and more \endash  describe how measurements of well-being can be used effectively to assess the progress of nations. The reports review the state of happiness in the world today and show how the new science of happiness explains personal and national variations in happiness.\par
World-Happiness-Report\par
Introduction:\par
ANSWER - The World Happiness Report is an annual publication of the United Nations Sustainable Development Solutions Network. It contains articles, and rankings of national happiness based on respondent ratings of their own lives,which the report also correlates with various life factors\par
\par
The rankings of national happiness are based on a Cantril ladder survey. Nationally representative samples of respondents are asked to think of a ladder, with the best possible life for them being a 10, and the worst possible life being a 0. They are then asked to rate their own current lives on that 0 to 10 scale. The report correlates the results with various life factors.\par
\par
In the reports, experts in fields including economics, psychology, survey analysis, and national statistics, describe how measurements of well-being can be used effectively to assess the progress of nations, and other topics. Each report is organized by chapters that delve deeper into issues relating to happiness, including mental illness, the objective benefits of happiness, the importance of ethics, policy implications, and links with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's (OECD) approach to measuring subjective well-being and other international and national efforts.\par
\par
Context\par
The World Happiness Report is a landmark survey of the state of global happiness. The first report was published in 2012, the second in 2013, the third in 2015, and the fourth in the 2016 Update. The World Happiness 2017, which ranks 155 countries by their happiness levels, was released at the United Nations at an event celebrating International Day of Happiness on March 20th. The report continues to gain global recognition as governments, organizations and civil society increasingly use happiness indicators to inform their policy-making decisions. Leading experts across fields \f2\endash  economics, psychology, survey analysis, national statistics, health, public policy and more \endash  describe how measurements of well-being can be used effectively to assess the progress of nations. The reports review the state of happiness in the world today and show how the new science of happiness explains personal and national variations in happiness.\par
Content\par
The happiness scores and rankings use data from the Gallup World Poll. The scores are based on answers to the main life evaluation question asked in the poll. This question, known as the Cantril ladder, asks respondents to think of a ladder with the best possible life for them being a 10 and the worst possible life being a 0 and to rate their own current lives on that scale. The scores are from nationally representative samples for the years 2013-2016 and use the Gallup weights to make the estimates representative. The columns following the happiness score estimate the extent to which each of six factors \endash  economic production, social support, life expectancy, freedom, absence of corruption, and generosity \endash  contribute to making life evaluations higher in each country than they are in Dystopia, a hypothetical country that has values equal to the world\rquote s lowest national averages for each of the six factors. They have no impact on the total score reported for each country, but they do explain why some countries rank higher than others\par
\b\f0 What is Dystopia?\par
\b0 Dystopia is an imaginary country that has the world\rquote s least-happy people. The purpose in establishing Dystopia is to have a benchmark against which all countries can be favorably compared (no country performs more poorly than Dystopia) in terms of each of the six key variables, thus allowing each sub-bar to be of positive width. The lowest scores observed for the six key variables, therefore, characterize Dystopia. Since life would be very unpleasant in a country with the world\rquote s lowest incomes, lowest life expectancy, lowest generosity, most corruption, least freedom and least social support, it is referred to as \ldblquote Dystopia,\rdblquote  in contrast to Utopia.\par
\b What are the residuals?\par
\b0 The residuals, or unexplained components, differ for each country, reflecting the extent to which the six variables either over- or under-explain average life evaluations. These residuals have an average value of approximately zero over the whole set of countries. \par
answer - The residuals, or unexplained components, differ for each country, reflecting the extent to which the six variables either over- or under-explain average 2014-2016 life evaluations. These residuals have an average value of approximately zero over the whole set of countries. Figure 2.2 shows the average residual for each country when the equation in Table 2.1 is applied to average 2014- 2016 data for the six variables in that country. We combine these residuals with the estimate for life evaluations in Dystopia so that the combined bar will always have positive values. As can be seen in Figure 2.2, although some life evaluation residuals are quite large, occasionally exceeding one point on the scale from 0 to 10, they are always much smaller than the calculated value in Dystopia, where the average life is rated at 1.85 on the 0 to 10 scale\par
\b What do the columns succeeding the Happiness Score(like Family, Generosity, etc.) describe?\par
\b0 The following columns: GDP per Capita, Family, Life Expectancy, Freedom, Generosity, Trust Government Corruption describe the extent to which these factors contribute in evaluating the happiness in each country.\par
The Dystopia Residual metric actually is the Dystopia Happiness Score(1.85) + the Residual value or the unexplained value for each country.\par
The Dystopia Residual is already provided in the dataset. \par
If you add all these factors up, you get the happiness score so it might be un-reliable to model them to predict Happiness Scores.\par
ANSWER - The following columns: GDP per Capita, Family, Life Expectancy, Freedom, Generosity, Trust Government Corruption describe the extent to which these factors contribute in evaluating the happiness in each country. The Dystopia Residual metric actually is the Dystopia Happiness Score(1.85) + the Residual value or the unexplained value for each country as stated in the previous answer.\par
If you add all these factors up, you get the happiness score so it might be un-reliable to model them to predict Happiness Scores.\par

\pard\cbpat2\widctlpar\sa240\qc\cf0\kerning2\ul\b\f3\fs48 Titanic survived Project\ulnone\fs36\par

\pard\cbpat2\widctlpar\sb100\sa240\qc\cf1\kerning0\b0\f0\fs28\par

\pard\cbpat2\widctlpar\sa240\b Project Description\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1\cf0\kerning2\b0 The Titanic Problem is based on the sinking of the \lquote Unsinkable\rquote  ship Titanic in early 1912. It gives you information about multiple people like their ages, sexes, sibling counts, embarkment points, and whether or not they survived the disaster. \par
Based on these features, you have to predict if an arbitrary passenger on Titanic would survive the sinking or not. \par

\pard\cbpat2\widctlpar\sa240\cf1\kerning0\ul\b Attribute Information\ulnone\b0\par

\pard\widctlpar\sa160\sl252\slmult1 Passenger id- Unique Id of the passenger\par
Pclass- Passenger Class (1 = 1st; 2 = 2nd; 3 = 3rd)\par
Survived- Survived (0 = No; 1 = Yes)\par
Name- Name of the passenger\par
Sex- Sex of the passenger (Male, Female)\par
Age- Age of the passenger\par
Sibsp- Number of Siblings/Spouses Aboard\par
Parch- Number of Parents/Children Aboard\par
Ticket- Ticket Number\par
Fare- Passenger Fare (British pound)\par
Cabin- Cabin\par
Embarked- Port of Embarkation (C = Cherbourg; Q = Queenstown; S = Southampton)\par
Features\par
answer - After getting a better perception of the different aspects of the dataset, I started exploring the features and the part they played in the survival or demise of a traveler.\par
\par
1. Survived\par
The first feature reported if a traveler lived or died. A comparison revealed that more than 60% of the passengers had died.\par
\par
2. Pclass\par
This feature renders the passenger division. The tourists could opt from three distinct sections, namely class-1, class-2, class-3. The third class had the highest number of commuters, followed by class-2 and class-1. The number of tourists in the third class was more than the number of passengers in the first and second class combined. The survival chances of a class-1 traveler were higher than a class-2 and class-3 traveler.\par
\par
\par
3. Sex\par
Approximately 65% of the tourists were male while the remaining 35% were female. Nonetheless, the percentage of female survivors was higher than the number of male survivors. More than 80% of male commuters died, as compared to around 70% female commuters.\par
\par
4. Age\par
The youngest traveler onboard was aged around two months and the oldest traveler was 80 years. The average age of tourists onboard was just under 30 years. Clearly, a larger fraction of children under 10 survived than died. or every other age group, the number of casualties was higher than the number of survivors. More than 140 people within the age group 20 and 30 were dead as compared to just around 80 people of the same age range sustained.\par
\par
\par
5. SibSp\par
SibSp is the number of siblings or spouse of a person onboard. A maximum of 8 siblings and spouses traveled along with one of the traveler. More than 90% of people traveled alone or with one of their sibling or spouse. The chances of survival dropped drastically if someone traveled with more than 2 siblings or spouse.\par
\par
\par
6. Parch\par
Similar to the SibSp, this feature contained the number of parents or children each passenger was touring with. A maximum of 9 parents/children traveled along with one of the traveler.\par
\par
I added the number of \lquote Parch\rquote  and \lquote SibSp\rquote  values to store in a new column named \lquote Family\rquote\par
\par
td['Family'] = td.Parch + td.SibSp\par
Moreover, the chances of survival skyrocketed when a traveler traveled alone. Created another column, Is_Alone and assigned True if the value in \lquote Family\rquote  column was 0.\par
\par
td['Is_Alone'] = td.Family == 0\par
7. Fare\par
By splitting the fare amount into four categories, it was obvious that there was a strong association between the charge and the survival. The higher a tourist paid, the higher would be his chances to survive.\par
\par
I stored the segregated fare to a new column Fare_Category\par
\par
td['Fare_Category'] = pd.cut(td['Fare'], bins=[0,7.90,14.45,31.28,120], labels=['Low','Mid',                                                                                   'High_Mid','High'])\par
\par
8. Embarked\par
Embarked implies where the traveler mounted from. There are three possible values for Embark \f2\emdash  Southampton, Cherbourg, and Queenstown. More than 70% of the people boarded from Southampton. Just under 20% boarded from Cherbourg and the rest boarded from Queenstown. People who boarded from Cherbourg had a higher chance of survival than people who boarded from Southampton or Queenstown.\par
\par
\par
It is worth noticing that we did not use the \lquote Ticket\rquote  column.\f0\par

\pard\cbpat2\widctlpar\sb100\sa240\par

\pard\cbpat2\widctlpar\sa240\cf0\f1\lang9\par
}
 